---
title: 'Change the offline address book generation schedule: Exchange 2013 Help'
TOCTitle: Change the offline address book generation schedule
ms.author: v-mapenn
author: mattpennathe3rd
manager: serdars
ms.reviewer:
ms.custom:
- 'Microsoft.Exchange.Management.SnapIn.Esm.OrganizationConfiguration.Mailbox.OfflineAddressBookGeneralPage'
ms.assetid: d2b4d527-311e-442d-9f1f-54fac8371b80
f1.keywords:
- CSH
mtps_version: v=EXCHG.150
---

# Change the offline address book generation schedule in Exchange 2013

_**Applies to:** Exchange Server 2013_

An offline address book (OAB) is a copy of an address book that's been downloaded so that an Outlook user can access the information it contains while disconnected from the server. You can configure how often the OAB is generated by using the _OABGeneratorWorkCycle_ and _OABGeneratorWorkCycleCheckpoint_ parameters on the Set-MailboxServer cmdlet.

For additional management tasks related to OABs, see [Offline address book procedures](offline-address-book-procedures-exchange-2013-help.md).

## What do you need to know before you begin?

- Estimated time to complete each procedure: 5 minutes.

- You need to be assigned permissions before you can perform this procedure or procedures. To see what permissions you need, see the "Offline address books" entry in the [Email address and address book permissions](email-address-and-address-book-permissions-exchange-2013-help.md) topic.

- You can't use the Exchange Administration center (EAC) to perform this procedure. You must use the Shell.

- For information about keyboard shortcuts that may apply to the procedures in this topic, see [Keyboard shortcuts for the Exchange admin center in Exchange 2013](keyboard-shortcuts-in-the-exchange-admin-center-2013-help.md).

> [!TIP]
> Having problems? Ask for help in the Exchange forums. Visit the forums at [Exchange Server](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkId=60612).

## Use the Shell to configure OAB properties
<a name="UseShell"> </a>

In this example, the offline address book is generated every six hours each day on the Mailbox server, MBXServer01.

```powershell
Set-MailboxServer -Identity MBXServer01 -OABGeneratorWorkCycle 01.00:00:00 -OABGeneratorWorkCycleCheckpoint 06:00:00
```

For detailed syntax and parameter information, see [Set-OfflineAddressBook](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/exchange/set-offlineaddressbook).
