---
title: 'Disable or enable journaling of voice mail and missed call notifications'
TOCTitle: Disable or enable journaling of voice mail and missed call notifications
ms:assetid: 5164a92e-69e6-4339-b80c-0cfbf0dc0198
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Bb201690(v=EXCHG.150)
ms:contentKeyID: 49354854
ms.date: 12/09/2016
mtps_version: v=EXCHG.150
---

# Disable or enable journaling of voice mail and missed call notifications

 

_**Applies to:** Exchange Server 2013_


In Microsoft Exchange Server 2013, when you create a journal rule to journal email messages sent to or from recipients or senders in an Exchange organization, voice mail and missed call notifications generated by the Unified Messaging (UM) service are included. Use the procedures in this topic to turn this feature on or off for your entire organization.

Looking for other management tasks related to journaling? Check out [Manage journaling](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/exchange/security-and-compliance/journaling/manage-journaling).

## What do you need to know before you begin?

  - Estimated time to complete: 5 minutes.

  - You need to be assigned permissions before you can perform this procedure or procedures. To see what permissions you need, see the "Journaling" entry in the [Messaging policy and compliance permissions](messaging-policy-and-compliance-permissions-exchange-2013-help.md) topic.

  - You can only use the Shell to perform this procedure.

  - For information about keyboard shortcuts that may apply to the procedures in this topic, see [Keyboard shortcuts in the Exchange admin center](keyboard-shortcuts-in-the-exchange-admin-center-2013-help.md).


> [!TIP]
> Having problems? Ask for help in the Exchange forums. Visit the forums at <A href="https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=60612">Exchange Server</A>, <A href="https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=267542">Exchange Online</A>, or <A href="https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=285351">Exchange Online Protection</A>.



## Use the Shell to disable or enable journaling of voice mail and missed call notifications

This example disables journaling of voice mail and missed call notifications by setting the *VoicemailJournalingEnabled* parameter to `$false`.

```powershell
Set-TransportConfig -VoicemailJournalingEnabled $false
```

This example enables the journaling of voice mail and missed call notifications by setting the same parameter to `$true`.

```powershell
Set-TransportConfig -VoicemailJournalingEnabled $true
```

For detailed syntax and parameter information, see [Set-TransportConfig](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb124151\(v=exchg.150\)).

## For More Information

[Journaling](journaling-exchange-2013-help.md)

[Manage journaling](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/exchange/security-and-compliance/journaling/manage-journaling)

